What is Devops?

DevOps [Development + Operations] :- It is an approach which focuses on collaboration, automation and 
continuous delivery to improve the software development life cycle which provides high quality products(Applicatons and Services) to customers quickly and efficiently.

Why Devops?

Accelerates the delivery of the software updates and features, enables organizations to respond swiftly to customer 
needs and market demands using the below principles ;

1) Collaboration between teams, leads to better communication and smoother workflows.

2) Automation - Technology to perform tasks without much human interevntion, which reduces 
               human errors and increases productivity.

3) Continuous Integration - Integrates code changes in a repository frequently and automatically built, 
                           tested and merged into the main branch which improves code quality and reliability.
          [Ensures the code updates are frequently integrated, tested and merged]

4) Continuous Delivery - Automates the (build,test) release process where developers approves releasing changes 
                        to production results in delivering softwares more quickly and efficiently.

5) Continuous Deployment - Automates the deployment process where code changes are automatically released to production,
                          makes software releases with new features faster and more reliable.

6) Continuous Monitoring - It is the process of continuously observing and analyzing system performance, security
                          and infrastructure in real-time. 
  -> It allows DevOps teams to detect issues early, ensuring that applications remain healthy and perform ideally
     with robust security.

7) Continuous Testing - It is the process of testing your application at every stage of the software development                               process and every time when changes are made to application code or configurations
                       results in early catch of bugs to maintain software quality and dependibility.

8) Continuous Feedback - It is the ongoing process of gathering feedback (from developers, testers, users,
                        automated systems), analyzing feedback (for improvement), and acting upon feedback
                        (to make changes to the software) throughout the software development lifecycle
                        which improves the quality of the software and customer experience.
